---
layout: post
title:  "Book Review: AIQ: How Artificial intelligence works and how we can harness its power for a better world by Nick Polson and James Scott"
date:   2018-05-29
image:  images/aiq.jpeg
tags:   [Book Review][word2vec][AI][Artificial intelligence][NLP][Natural language processing]
---

This is a book that tells the stories behind the development of current machine learning algorithms.  It is aimed at a general audience rather than one with a statistical background

One story that stood out for me was the tale of --- who discovered a new way for measuring distances beyond our near galaxy.  The book decorates the science with details such as the difficulties of being a female scientist in the 1960s.

I also found the explanation of word2vec to be very succint and intuitive.  Previous explanations I have heard all involved plotting words on a 2-dimensional graph.  However, when asked to extrapolate the graph beyond three dimensions, the human brain is fundamentally unable to produce this visualization.
Instead, the authors recount the game of 20 questions played in the family living room in 'A Christmas Carol' by Charles Dickens.

---picture of scrooge

Converting words into a numerical representation can be very useful for computers (see later), but how should it be done.  Well in 20 questions, the players create a binary vector numerical representation of the word without even realising it.  The questions go:
"Is it in animal?", "Yes"
"Is it amiable?", "No"
"Does it live in London", "Yes"
"Does it make grunting sounds?", "Yes"
"Does it walk on four legs?", "No"
"Is it a bear?!", "No"
...
"Oooh, I know, it's Uncle Scrooge!""
